README.md, before:

# :man_technologist: Jarmos

[![Website][Website]][Personal Website] [![Netlify Deploy][Netlify Deploy Badge]][Netlify Deploy] [![LinkedIn][My LinkedIn Badge]][My LinkedIn] [![Quora profile][My Quora Badge]][My Quora] [![Ask Me Anything !][My AMA Badge]][My AMA] [![Twitter Follow][My Twitter Badge]][My Twitter]

This repository hosts the tools, assets & themes for my [personal website][Personal Website]. The site is statically generated with [Hugo][Hugo Landing Page] & the [PaperMod][Hugo-PaperMod] theme. Hugo which is a Static Site Generator(SSG) built with [Golang][Go Landing Page] generates the static contents for the site to be deployed to [Netlify][Netlify Landing Page].

- [:man_technologist: Jarmos](#man_technologist-jarmos)
  - [:checkered_flag: Getting Started](#checkered_flag-getting-started)
    - [:running: The Easy & Quick Way To Get It Done](#running-the-easy--quick-way-to-get-it-done)
      - [:nut_and_bolt: Setup a Development Environment](#nut_and_bolt-setup-a-development-environment)
      - [:chart_with_upwards_trend: Setting Up Traffic Tracking & Analytics](#chart_with_upwards_trend-setting-up-traffic-tracking--analytics)
      - [:control_knobs: Setup Netlify CMS](#control_knobs-setup-netlify-cms)
      - [:dash: Preparing Your Site For Deployment](#dash-preparing-your-site-for-deployment)
      - [:gear: Setup GitHub Actions to Deploy](#gear-setup-github-actions-to-deploy)
  - [:hammer_and_wrench: Built With](#hammer_and_wrench-built-with)
  - [:building_construction: Contributing](#building_construction-contributing)
    - [:eyes: Issues](#eyes-issues)
    - [:package: Pull Request](#package-pull-request)
  - [:memo: License](#memo-license)
  - [:raised_hand: Get Help](#raised_hand-get-help)
  - [:clap: Acknowledgements](#clap-acknowledgements)

## :checkered_flag: Getting Started

So, you found my website somehow either on GitHub or elsewhere & you want one for yourself too. Or perhaps, you just ❤️ open-source software & would like to make a contribution to my site, then read this [README](/README.md) throughly.

A bird's eye overview of what the blog is capable of:

- It's FREE, as in no server costs are involved.
- In context to the point above, there's no server in the first place to serve the website on the Internet. All the generated static content are delivered over [Netlify's CDN][Netlify CDN Guide].
- Transparency is a major aspect in everything I do in life. The same applies to my personal website as well. That said, I try to keep stuff related to it as open-source as possible on the repository. So, in other words, my website will forever be open-sourced.
- Privacy-first. My site uses [Cloudflare Analytics][Cloudflare Analytics] as an alternative to Google Analytics to respect my audience's privacy concerns. All I care about is how much traffic am I getting & that's all. So, Cloudflare Analytics satisfies my needs.
- Knowledge-sharing over aesthetics. Visit my site & you'll find it's pretty simple & minimalist. That's intentional as I want my audiences to read my content & take home some valuable lessons. Intrusive popups & marketing gimmicks aren't my thing, so I try to keep that away from my personal site.
- Make it a Wordpress alternative. Hence, it even supports an admin panel powered by [Netlify CMS][Netlify CMS Landing Page] (_Work-In-Progress_)!

So, if the aforementioned points matters to you, then fo ahead & check out how to get your own blog which looks similar to mine.

### :running: The Easy & Quick Way To Get It Done

In a hurry to get your personal website running ASAP, then check out the following section.

#### :nut_and_bolt: Setup a Development Environment

1. Fork the repository.
2. Clone your copy of the repository locally using the command `git clone git@github.com:<INSERT_YOUR_USERNAME_HERE>/blog.git`.
3. Remove the files under the directory `content`. Note, the files are written in [Markdown][Markdown Guide]. So, if you've been active on GitHub for a while, writing your `.md` content will be a breeze.
4. Ensure you've Hugo installed & is available on PATH. If not, then follow the instructions available in [the official documentation][Install Hugo] to set it up on your local machine.
5. Clone the [PaperMod theme][Hugo-PaperMod] under the `./theme/` directory with the `git submodule add https://github.com/adityatelange/hugo-PaperMod.git` command.
6. `cd` back into the root directory & run the `hugo server` command on your preferred terminal & see if everything works as expected.

#### :chart_with_upwards_trend: Setting Up Traffic Tracking & Analytics

The blog uses Cloudflare's tracker instead of Google Analytics due to privacy reasons. Besides, since Google Analytics is basically a JS script, some browsers can block it. On the hand Cloudflare's system is a backend server-based system. In doing so, it appears, there might be some inconsistency in tracking your traffice & audiences with Google Analytics ([_source_][Cloudflare vs Google Analytics]).

So, I strongly suggest you stick to using Cloudflare Analytics like I'm. To do so follow these instructions:

- Create a [Cloudflare][Cloudflare Landing Page] account (_if you don't have one already_).
- Create the tracking JS snippet on the [Analytics dashboard][Cloudflare Analytics Dashboard].
- Copy & replace the existing snippet in [`layouts/partials/extend_head.html`](./layouts/partials/extend_head.html) with the snippet you just created on the Cloudflare Analytics dashboard.

And you're good to go! Now you can keep track of all visits to your site on Cloudflare's dashboard.

But in case, you decide to use Google Analytics instead, do follow the [official instructions][Hugo Google Analytics Docs] on the Hugo documentations.

#### :control_knobs: Setup Netlify CMS
<!-- TODO: Update README with instructions to setup Netlify CMS -->
Setting up the CMS is a work-in-progress project but it's already implemented (_kinda_). If you want to access it, check it out at: `https://<SITE-NAME>.netlify.app/admin`. Helping hands are always welcome to help set it up.

That said, it's setup with [Netlify CMS][Netlify CMS Landing Page] & make sure to check back to stay updated with the latest implementations.

#### :dash: Preparing Your Site For Deployment

1. Write your articles inside the `./content` directory & save them as `.md` files. Check if the articles are generated as expected by running the `hugo server` command.
2. Push your changes to GitHub with the `git push` command from the root directory.
3. Create/login into an account on [Netlify][Netlify Landing Page].
4. Refer to the [Netlify Documentations][Netlify Docs] to setup an initial deployment. You'll have to do it only once if you want to deploy your changes with GitHub Actions instead just like me.
5. Once the site is deployed, Netlify assigns a domain automatically. It should look something on these lines: `https://<NETLIFY_GENERATED_ALPHANUMERIC_STRING>.netlify.app`.

#### :gear: Setup GitHub Actions to Deploy

While you could push your changes to GitHub & Netlify will still trigger a build on their platform, but it's pretty inefficient & non-scalable. Reasons being:

- Netlify has a limited 300 minutes compared to GitHub's insane 2000 minutes of build times. While it should suffice if you've just one site but you can chew through your quoate pretty quick once you start deploying more sites.
- Hugo is fast (_or rather the fastest SSG out there_). It'll generate your static files in under 1ms. Couple it with a fast Action, you can deploy the generated files to Netlify's CDN in less than half a min! This comes handy when you're committing changes constantly & would like to preview a live version of the changes. Doing the same takes at least a min on Netlify's servers.
- It's a more configurable way to deploy the contents.

And the list goes on. There really is no reason why shouldn't use GitHub Actions to deploy your site to Netlify (_if you can, that is_).

So without further ado, let's setup GitHub Actions to build & deploy the site to Netlify (_finally!_ 😤)

- The [nwtgck/actions-netlify][Netlify Actions] is used to manage the build & deployment process. If you had followed the steps till now, you might notice on the GitHub Action's tab that it failed (_which is expected_). To fix it you'll need an Netlify Auth Token & the Site ID.
- You can find the Netlify Auth Token under the [User Settings>Applications][Netlify User Settings] tab. While the Site ID can be found under the individual site's settings at: `https://app.netlify.com/sites/<YOUR-SITE-NAME>/settings/general`. The alphanumeric name under `API ID` is what you should be looking out for.
- Copy those details & save them as [Encrypted Secrets][GitHub Encrypted Secrets]. Make sure to name them as `NETLIFY_AUTH_TOKEN` & `NETLIFY_SITE_ID` respectively for the Auth token & the Site ID.

And you're good to go! Write an article under the `./content` directory & push them to the remote respository. Then watch your workflow build & deploy the site all under half a minute! 🤯

## :hammer_and_wrench: Built With

The site is built using Hugo to generate static content. These contents are then deployed to Netlify to be delivered over Netlify's CDN. These are the primary 2 tools you will specifically need to build the website.

For more information on how to use these tools, refer to their respective documentations:

- [Netlify][Netlify Docs]
- [Hugo][Hugo Docs]

## :building_construction: Contributing

I'm no frontend mastermind, hence I often need a helping to fix something on the website. So, if you find something broken & a feature needing some improvement, don't hesitate to make a PR. All suggestions & PRs to improve this project are appreciated.

or, perhaps you're just looking to get your feet wet in the open-source community. Then this site will be a perfect opportunity for you. Besides, there's a reason why I've open-sourced this personal website! :wink:

There's a comprehensive guideline in the [CONTRIBUTING.md](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) document. Refer to it for more details on contributing to the project.

### :eyes: Issues

In case of a bug report, bugfix or a suggestion, please feel free to open an issue following the respective templates

- [Ask a Question](.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/ask-a-question.md)
- [Bug Report](.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug-report.md)
- [Discussion](.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/discussion.md)

### :package: Pull Request

Pull Requests are always welcome & I'll review them as quick as possible. But for easier collaboration, please follow the specification provided in the [PR template](.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md).

## :memo: License

All software used & the content I share are licensed under the T&Cs as stated below:

1. All the literary content available under [`./content/posts`](./content/posts) are licensed under the [CC0-1.0](./LICENSE) license.

2. The repository also uses and/or contains software used to generate the static contents for the personal website. Following are the software as well as other related tools used & their licensings T&Cs.

    | Software            | Licence T&Cs                                      |
    | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
    | Hugo                | [Apache-2.0][Hugo License]                        |
    | Netlify Actions     | [MIT][Netlify Actions License]                    |
    | Hugo-PaperMod theme | [MIT][Hugo-PaperMod License]                      |
    | Netlify             | [Netlify Terms of Service Agreement][Netlify ToS] |
    | Netlify CMS         | [MIT][Netlify CMS License]                        |
    | Git Checkout Action | [MIT][Git Checkout Action License]                |
    | Actions-Hugo        | [MIT][Hugo Action License]                        |
    | Automerge-Action    | [MIT][Automerge Action License]                   |

## :raised_hand: Get Help

Facing difficulties to deploy your site after forking this repository? Well then feel free to reach out to me. I'm available on [Twitter][My Twitter] & [LinkedIn][My LinkedIn] for a quick chat. But if you need a very comprehensive explanation on something related to this project check out the [Discussion threads][Project Discussion Threads].

Or maybe your question isn't related to this project, then check out my [*Ask Me Anything*][My AMA].

## :clap: Acknowledgements

- [Hugo Devs][Hugo Devs], thanks to whom, my website wouldn't come into fruition!
- The site uses the [PaperMod][Hugo-PaperMod] theme built by [Aditya Telange][Hugo-PaperMod Dev].
- And at last, thanks to [all those who contributed][Project Contributors] to fixing & correcting my site.

<!-- * Reference links -->
<!-- ? Personal Related Links -->
[Personal Website]: https://jarmos.netlify.app
[My Twitter]: https://twitter.com/Jarmosan
[My LinkedIn]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jarmos/
[My AMA]: https://github.com/Jarmos-san/Jarmos-san/discussions/categories/q-a
[My Quora]: https://www.quora.com/profile/Somraj-Saha-3
<!-- ? Hugo Related Links -->
[Hugo Landing Page]: https://gohugo.io
[Hugo-PaperMod]: https://adityatelange.github.io/hugo-PaperMod/
[Install Hugo]: https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/
[Hugo Google Analytics]: https://gohugo.io/templates/internal/#google-analytics
[Hugo Docs]: https://gohugo.io/documentation/
[Hugo License]: https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/blob/master/LICENSE
[Hugo Devs]: https://github.com/orgs/gohugoio/people
[Hugo-PaperMod Dev]: https://github.com/adityatelange
[Hugo-PaperMod License]: https://github.com/adityatelange/hugo-PaperMod/blob/master/LICENSE
<!-- ? Netlify Related Links -->
[Netlify Actions License]: https://github.com/nwtgck/actions-netlify/blob/develop/LICENSE
[Netlify ToS]: https://www.netlify.com/tos/
[Netlify Landing Page]: https://www.netlify.com/
[Netlify CDN Guide]: https://community.netlify.com/t/support-guide-making-the-most-of-netlifys-cdn-cache/127
[Netlify Docs]: https://docs.netlify.com/
[Netlify CMS Landing Page]: https://www.netlifycms.org/
[Netlify CMS License]: https://github.com/netlify/netlify-cms/blob/master/LICENSE
[Netlify Actions]: https://github.com/marketplace/actions/netlify-actions
[Netlify User Settings]: https://app.netlify.com/user/applications
[Go Landing Page]: https://golang.org
<!-- ? Cloudflare Related Links -->
[Cloudflare Analytics]: https://www.cloudflare.com/analytics/
[Cloudflare vs Google Analytics]: https://community.cloudflare.com/t/gap-between-cloudflare-analytics-and-google-analytics-reporting/33326
[Cloudflare Landing Page]: https://www.cloudflare.com/
[Cloudflare Analytics Dashboard]: https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/:zone/analytics/traffic
<!-- ? Project Related Links -->
[Project Discussion Threads]: https://github.com/Jarmos-san/blog/discussions
[Project Contributors]: https://github.com/Jarmos-san/blog/graphs/contributors
<!-- ? Miscellaneous Related Links -->
[Markdown Guide]: https://www.markdownguide.org/
[GitHub Encrypted Secrets]: https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/encrypted-secrets
[Netlify Deploy]: https://github.com/Jarmos-san/blog/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Netlify+Deploy%22
[Git Checkout Action License]: https://github.com/actions/checkout/blob/main/LICENSE
[Hugo Action License]: https://github.com/peaceiris/actions-hugo/blob/main/LICENSE
[Automerge Action License]: https://github.com/pascalgn/automerge-action/blob/master/LICENSE
<!-- ? Shield Badges -->
[Website]: https://img.shields.io/website?down_color=Red&down_message=Down&label=Website&style=flat-square&up_color=Green&up_message=Up&url=https%3A%2F%2Fjarmos.netlify.app%2F
[Netlify Deploy Badge]: https://github.com/Jarmos-san/blog/workflows/Netlify%20Deploy/badge.svg?branch=dev
[My LinkedIn Badge]: https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=LinkedIn&message=Connect&color=0077B5&style=flat-square&logo=linkedin
[My Quora Badge]: https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Quora&message=QnA&color=B92B27&style=flat-square&logo=quora
[My AMA Badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Ask%20Me-Anything!-1abc9c.svg
[My Twitter Badge]: https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/Jarmosan?style=social

Commit message:

:memo: Update README to setup Forestry CMS

README.md, after:

# :man_technologist: Jarmos

[![Website][Website]][Personal Website] [![Netlify Deploy][Netlify Deploy Badge]][Netlify Deploy] [![LinkedIn][My LinkedIn Badge]][My LinkedIn] [![Quora profile][My Quora Badge]][My Quora] [![Ask Me Anything !][My AMA Badge]][My AMA] [![Twitter Follow][My Twitter Badge]][My Twitter]

This repository hosts the tools, assets & themes for my [personal website][Personal Website]. The site is statically generated with [Hugo][Hugo Landing Page] & the [PaperMod][Hugo-PaperMod] theme. Hugo which is a Static Site Generator(SSG) built with [Golang][Go Landing Page] generates the static contents for the site to be deployed to [Netlify][Netlify Landing Page].

- [:man_technologist: Jarmos](#man_technologist-jarmos)
  - [:checkered_flag: Getting Started](#checkered_flag-getting-started)
    - [:running: The Easy & Quick Way To Get It Done](#running-the-easy--quick-way-to-get-it-done)
      - [:nut_and_bolt: Setup a Development Environment](#nut_and_bolt-setup-a-development-environment)
      - [:chart_with_upwards_trend: Setting Up Traffic Tracking & Analytics](#chart_with_upwards_trend-setting-up-traffic-tracking--analytics)
      - [:control_knobs: Setup a CMS](#control_knobs-setup-a-cms)
      - [:dash: Preparing Your Site For Deployment](#dash-preparing-your-site-for-deployment)
      - [:gear: Setup GitHub Actions to Deploy](#gear-setup-github-actions-to-deploy)
  - [:hammer_and_wrench: Built With](#hammer_and_wrench-built-with)
  - [:building_construction: Contributing](#building_construction-contributing)
    - [:eyes: Issues](#eyes-issues)
    - [:package: Pull Request](#package-pull-request)
  - [:memo: License](#memo-license)
  - [:raised_hand: Get Help](#raised_hand-get-help)
  - [:clap: Acknowledgements](#clap-acknowledgements)

## :checkered_flag: Getting Started

So, you found my website somehow either on GitHub or elsewhere & you want one for yourself too. Or perhaps, you just ❤️ open-source software & would like to make a contribution to my site, then read this [README](/README.md) throughly.

A bird's eye overview of what the blog is capable of:

- It's FREE, as in no server costs are involved.
- In context to the point above, there's no server in the first place to serve the website on the Internet. All the generated static content are delivered over [Netlify's CDN][Netlify CDN Guide].
- Transparency is a major aspect in everything I do in life. The same applies to my personal website as well. That said, I try to keep stuff related to it as open-source as possible on the repository. So, in other words, my website will forever be open-sourced.
- Privacy-first. My site uses [Cloudflare Analytics][Cloudflare Analytics] as an alternative to Google Analytics to respect my audience's privacy concerns. All I care about is how much traffic am I getting & that's all. So, Cloudflare Analytics satisfies my needs.
- Knowledge-sharing over aesthetics. Visit my site & you'll find it's pretty simple & minimalist. That's intentional as I want my audiences to read my content & take home some valuable lessons. Intrusive popups & marketing gimmicks aren't my thing, so I try to keep that away from my personal site.
- Make it a Wordpress alternative. Hence, it even supports an admin panel powered by [Forestry][Forestry.io]!

So, if the aforementioned points matters to you, then fo ahead & check out how to get your own blog which looks similar to mine.

### :running: The Easy & Quick Way To Get It Done

In a hurry to get your personal website running ASAP, then check out the following section.

#### :nut_and_bolt: Setup a Development Environment

1. Fork the repository.
2. Clone your copy of the repository locally using the command `git clone git@github.com:<INSERT_YOUR_USERNAME_HERE>/blog.git`.
3. Remove the files under the directory `content`. Note, the files are written in [Markdown][Markdown Guide]. So, if you've been active on GitHub for a while, writing your `.md` content will be a breeze.
4. Ensure you've Hugo installed & is available on PATH. If not, then follow the instructions available in [the official documentation][Install Hugo] to set it up on your local machine.
5. Clone the [PaperMod theme][Hugo-PaperMod] under the `./theme/` directory with the `git submodule add https://github.com/adityatelange/hugo-PaperMod.git` command.
6. `cd` back into the root directory & run the `hugo server` command on your preferred terminal & see if everything works as expected.

#### :chart_with_upwards_trend: Setting Up Traffic Tracking & Analytics

The blog uses Cloudflare's tracker instead of Google Analytics due to privacy reasons. Besides, since Google Analytics is basically a JS script, some browsers can block it. On the hand Cloudflare's system is a backend server-based system. In doing so, it appears, there might be some inconsistency in tracking your traffice & audiences with Google Analytics ([_source_][Cloudflare vs Google Analytics]).

So, I strongly suggest you stick to using Cloudflare Analytics like I'm. To do so follow these instructions:

- Create a [Cloudflare][Cloudflare Landing Page] account (_if you don't have one already_).
- Create the tracking JS snippet on the [Analytics dashboard][Cloudflare Analytics Dashboard].
- Copy & replace the existing snippet in [`layouts/partials/extend_head.html`](./layouts/partials/extend_head.html) with the snippet you just created on the Cloudflare Analytics dashboard.

And you're good to go! Now you can keep track of all visits to your site on Cloudflare's dashboard.

But in case, you decide to use Google Analytics instead, do follow the [official instructions][Hugo Google Analytics Docs] on the Hugo documentations.

#### :control_knobs: Setup a CMS

**Note**: I'm in favour of using [Forestry.io][Forestry]'s service right now over [Netlify CMS][Netlify CMS Landing Page]. It's much more easier & intuitive (_and less buggier too_) to setup. The decision was made after coming across a blocker as documented in [#40][Issue #40]. Since, the devs of Netlify haven't shown any interest to fix the issue, Forestry is a better choice.

For a detailed installation process, refer to the official Forestry.io [documentations][Forestry Docs]. The devs did an amazing job articultating the exact procedure to set it up.

That said, following are the advantages of get setting up a CMS admin panel on the site:

- You no longer need a Markdown Editor (or even the development environment) installed locally. Just access it at: `https://<YOUR-SITE>/admin` & start writing.
- You can give editorial access to 2 more writers all for free. More than that you would've to purchase a subsciption.
- Forestry leverages the Git-backend to update any config files it needs for the CMS, on your behalf. All you got to do is tweak the settings on it's web-based GUI.
- And finally, the main reason for switching from Netlify CMS to Forestry, availability of remote media storage. As of the now the site is configured to load up the image assets off of [Cloudinary][Cloudinary] but other options include [S3][AWS S3] & [Netlify Large Media][Netlify Large Media]. These options should help me in case I need to scale up my image storage capabilities.

There's more information available on the official docs, so do check it out. They did a convincing job to make me switch.

#### :dash: Preparing Your Site For Deployment

1. Write your articles inside the `./content` directory & save them as `.md` files. Check if the articles are generated as expected by running the `hugo server` command.
2. Push your changes to GitHub with the `git push` command from the root directory.
3. Create/login into an account on [Netlify][Netlify Landing Page].
4. Refer to the [Netlify Documentations][Netlify Docs] to setup an initial deployment. You'll have to do it only once if you want to deploy your changes with GitHub Actions instead just like me.
5. Once the site is deployed, Netlify assigns a domain automatically. It should look something on these lines: `https://<NETLIFY_GENERATED_ALPHANUMERIC_STRING>.netlify.app`.

#### :gear: Setup GitHub Actions to Deploy

While you could push your changes to GitHub & Netlify will still trigger a build on their platform, but it's pretty inefficient & non-scalable. Reasons being:

- Netlify has a limited 300 minutes compared to GitHub's insane 2000 minutes of build times. While it should suffice if you've just one site but you can chew through your quoate pretty quick once you start deploying more sites.
- Hugo is fast (_or rather the fastest SSG out there_). It'll generate your static files in under 1ms. Couple it with a fast Action, you can deploy the generated files to Netlify's CDN in less than half a min! This comes handy when you're committing changes constantly & would like to preview a live version of the changes. Doing the same takes at least a min on Netlify's servers.
- It's a more configurable way to deploy the contents.

And the list goes on. There really is no reason why shouldn't use GitHub Actions to deploy your site to Netlify (_if you can, that is_).

So without further ado, let's setup GitHub Actions to build & deploy the site to Netlify (_finally!_ 😤)

- The [nwtgck/actions-netlify][Netlify Actions] is used to manage the build & deployment process. If you had followed the steps till now, you might notice on the GitHub Action's tab that it failed (_which is expected_). To fix it you'll need an Netlify Auth Token & the Site ID.
- You can find the Netlify Auth Token under the [User Settings>Applications][Netlify User Settings] tab. While the Site ID can be found under the individual site's settings at: `https://app.netlify.com/sites/<YOUR-SITE-NAME>/settings/general`. The alphanumeric name under `API ID` is what you should be looking out for.
- Copy those details & save them as [Encrypted Secrets][GitHub Encrypted Secrets]. Make sure to name them as `NETLIFY_AUTH_TOKEN` & `NETLIFY_SITE_ID` respectively for the Auth token & the Site ID.

And you're good to go! Write an article under the `./content` directory & push them to the remote respository. Then watch your workflow build & deploy the site all under half a minute! 🤯

## :hammer_and_wrench: Built With

The site is built using Hugo to generate static content. These contents are then deployed to Netlify to be delivered over Netlify's CDN. These are the primary 2 tools you will specifically need to build the website.

For more information on how to use these tools, refer to their respective documentations:

- [Netlify][Netlify Docs]
- [Hugo][Hugo Docs]

## :building_construction: Contributing

I'm no frontend mastermind, hence I often need a helping to fix something on the website. So, if you find something broken & a feature needing some improvement, don't hesitate to make a PR. All suggestions & PRs to improve this project are appreciated.

or, perhaps you're just looking to get your feet wet in the open-source community. Then this site will be a perfect opportunity for you. Besides, there's a reason why I've open-sourced this personal website! :wink:

There's a comprehensive guideline in the [CONTRIBUTING.md](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) document. Refer to it for more details on contributing to the project.

### :eyes: Issues

In case of a bug report, bugfix or a suggestion, please feel free to open an issue following the respective templates

- [Ask a Question](.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/ask-a-question.md)
- [Bug Report](.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug-report.md)
- [Discussion](.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/discussion.md)

### :package: Pull Request

Pull Requests are always welcome & I'll review them as quick as possible. But for easier collaboration, please follow the specification provided in the [PR template](.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md).

## :memo: License

All software used & the content I share are licensed under the T&Cs as stated below:

1. All the literary content available under [`./content/posts`](./content/posts) are licensed under the [CC0-1.0](./LICENSE) license.

2. The repository also uses and/or contains software used to generate the static contents for the personal website. Following are the software as well as other related tools used & their licensings T&Cs.

    | Software            | Licence T&Cs                                      |
    | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
    | Hugo                | [Apache-2.0][Hugo License]                        |
    | Netlify Actions     | [MIT][Netlify Actions License]                    |
    | Hugo-PaperMod theme | [MIT][Hugo-PaperMod License]                      |
    | Netlify             | [Netlify Terms of Service Agreement][Netlify ToS] |
    | Netlify CMS         | [MIT][Netlify CMS License]                        |
    | Git Checkout Action | [MIT][Git Checkout Action License]                |
    | Actions-Hugo        | [MIT][Hugo Action License]                        |
    | Automerge-Action    | [MIT][Automerge Action License]                   |

## :raised_hand: Get Help

Facing difficulties to deploy your site after forking this repository? Well then feel free to reach out to me. I'm available on [Twitter][My Twitter] & [LinkedIn][My LinkedIn] for a quick chat. But if you need a very comprehensive explanation on something related to this project check out the [Discussion threads][Project Discussion Threads].

Or maybe your question isn't related to this project, then check out my [*Ask Me Anything*][My AMA].

## :clap: Acknowledgements

- [Hugo Devs][Hugo Devs], thanks to whom, my website wouldn't come into fruition!
- The site uses the [PaperMod][Hugo-PaperMod] theme built by [Aditya Telange][Hugo-PaperMod Dev].
- And at last, thanks to [all those who contributed][Project Contributors] to fixing & correcting my site.

<!-- * Reference links -->
<!-- ? Personal Related Links -->
[Personal Website]: https://jarmos.netlify.app
[My Twitter]: https://twitter.com/Jarmosan
[My LinkedIn]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jarmos/
[My AMA]: https://github.com/Jarmos-san/Jarmos-san/discussions/categories/q-a
[My Quora]: https://www.quora.com/profile/Somraj-Saha-3
<!-- ? Hugo Related Links -->
[Hugo Landing Page]: https://gohugo.io
[Hugo-PaperMod]: https://adityatelange.github.io/hugo-PaperMod/
[Install Hugo]: https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/
[Hugo Google Analytics]: https://gohugo.io/templates/internal/#google-analytics
[Hugo Docs]: https://gohugo.io/documentation/
[Hugo License]: https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/blob/master/LICENSE
[Hugo Devs]: https://github.com/orgs/gohugoio/people
[Hugo-PaperMod Dev]: https://github.com/adityatelange
[Hugo-PaperMod License]: https://github.com/adityatelange/hugo-PaperMod/blob/master/LICENSE
<!-- ? Netlify Related Links -->
[Netlify Actions License]: https://github.com/nwtgck/actions-netlify/blob/develop/LICENSE
[Netlify ToS]: https://www.netlify.com/tos/
[Netlify Landing Page]: https://www.netlify.com/
[Netlify CDN Guide]: https://community.netlify.com/t/support-guide-making-the-most-of-netlifys-cdn-cache/127
[Netlify Docs]: https://docs.netlify.com/
[Netlify CMS Landing Page]: https://www.netlifycms.org/
[Netlify CMS License]: https://github.com/netlify/netlify-cms/blob/master/LICENSE
[Netlify Actions]: https://github.com/marketplace/actions/netlify-actions
[Netlify User Settings]: https://app.netlify.com/user/applications
[Go Landing Page]: https://golang.org
<!-- ? Cloudflare Related Links -->
[Cloudflare Analytics]: https://www.cloudflare.com/analytics/
[Cloudflare vs Google Analytics]: https://community.cloudflare.com/t/gap-between-cloudflare-analytics-and-google-analytics-reporting/33326
[Cloudflare Landing Page]: https://www.cloudflare.com/
[Cloudflare Analytics Dashboard]: https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/:zone/analytics/traffic
<!-- ? Project Related Links -->
[Project Discussion Threads]: https://github.com/Jarmos-san/blog/discussions
[Project Contributors]: https://github.com/Jarmos-san/blog/graphs/contributors
[Issue #40]: https://github.com/Jarmos-san/blog/issues/40
<!-- ? Miscellaneous Related Links -->
[Markdown Guide]: https://www.markdownguide.org/
[GitHub Encrypted Secrets]: https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/encrypted-secrets
[Netlify Deploy]: https://github.com/Jarmos-san/blog/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Netlify+Deploy%22
[Git Checkout Action License]: https://github.com/actions/checkout/blob/main/LICENSE
[Hugo Action License]: https://github.com/peaceiris/actions-hugo/blob/main/LICENSE
[Automerge Action License]: https://github.com/pascalgn/automerge-action/blob/master/LICENSE
[Forestry Docs]: https://forestry.io/docs/welcome/
[Cloudinary]: https://cloudinary.com/
[AWS S3]: https://aws.amazon.com/s3/
[Netlify Large Media]: https://www.netlify.com/products/large-media/
[Forestry]: https://forestry.io/
<!-- ? Shield Badges -->
[Website]: https://img.shields.io/website?down_color=Red&down_message=Down&label=Website&style=flat-square&up_color=Green&up_message=Up&url=https%3A%2F%2Fjarmos.netlify.app%2F
[Netlify Deploy Badge]: https://github.com/Jarmos-san/blog/workflows/Netlify%20Deploy/badge.svg?branch=dev
[My LinkedIn Badge]: https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=LinkedIn&message=Connect&color=0077B5&style=flat-square&logo=linkedin
[My Quora Badge]: https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Quora&message=QnA&color=B92B27&style=flat-square&logo=quora
[My AMA Badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Ask%20Me-Anything!-1abc9c.svg
[My Twitter Badge]: https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/Jarmosan?style=social
