content/services.md, before:

---
title: Hire Me
url: "/services"
hidemeta: true
disableShare: true
summary: Hire Somraj Saha for your professional needs. This section details his services,
  rates, skill sets & everything else you might want to know before hiring him.
---
Over the past couple of years, I've been fortunate enough to be able to work with some amazing folks. Most of them were business partners who co-founded some ventures with me or were small-scale business owners. They helped me garner 4+ years of experience working on real business issues.

And are you a founder or a small-scale business owner as well? Perhaps my experience coupled with my skill set might benefit you in some way or the other. If so, read ahead & decide if you would like to hire me.

## Technology Stack

Following are the list of technologies I'm most familiar with:

| Services              |                                  Technology                                  |
| :-------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| Programming Languages |                               [Python][Python]                               |
| Backend               |                              [FastAPI][FastAPI]                              |
| Hosting               | [Heroku][Heroku] - [Amazon Web Services][AWS] - [Google Cloud Platform][GCP] |
| Machine Learning      |              [Scikit-Learn][Sklearn] - [TensorFlow][TensorFlow]              |
| Shell Scripting       |                   [PowerShell][PowerShell] - [Bash][Bash]                    |
| Development Platforms |                   [Windows 10][Windows] - [Ubuntu][Ubuntu]                   |
| Miscellaneous         |                     [GitHub][GitHub] - [Kaggle][Kaggle]                      |

**Note**: The aforementioned tech stack is what I'm most confident with. So, in case you need help with something else, feel free to reach out to me. We can come up with a solution to the problem you're facing. :wink:

## Services, Rates, Payment Terms

I charge a flat rate of $75/hr but subsidize the prices on long-term projects (ones that could take 2+ months). Payments are accepted over Direct Wire (preferred) and/or Transferwise. But if for some reason the payment process can't be done on those platform then PayPal works as well.

For any business queries, please reach out to me over [email][Email] first with a detailed description of your needs. But, feel free to contact me elsewhere as well, here are my [contact details](../about/#contact-me).

<!-- Reference Links -->
<!-- * Programming Language -->
[Python]: https://www.python.org/
<!-- * Backend Services Tech -->
[FastAPI]: http://fastapi.tiangolo.com/
<!-- * Machine Learning Libraries -->
[TensorFlow]: https://www.tensorflow.org/
[Sklearn]: https://scikit-learn.org
<!-- * Cloud Platforms -->
[Heroku]: https://www.heroku.com/
[AWS]: https://aws.amazon.com/
[GCP]: https://cloud.google.com/
<!-- * Dev Platforms -->
[Windows]: https://www.microsoft.com/en-in/windows/get-windows-10
[Ubuntu]: https://ubuntu.com/
<!-- * Shell Scripting -->
[PowerShell]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/
[Bash]: https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/
<!-- * Miscellaneous -->
[GitHub]: https://github.com/Jarmos-san
[Kaggle]: https://www.kaggle.com/jarmos
<!-- * Personal -->
[Email]: mailto:somraj.mle@gmail.com

Commit message:

:poop: Polish the Services page

content/services.md, after:

---
title: Hire Me
url: "/services"
hidemeta: true
disableShare: true
summary: Hire Somraj Saha for your professional needs. This section details his services, rates, skill sets & everything else you might want to know before hiring him.
---
I've been fortunate enough to be able to work with some amazing folks over the past couple of years. Most of them were business partners who co-founded some ventures with me or were small-scale business owners. And with their help, I garnered 4+ years of experience working on real business issues. And if you need an experienced helping hand as well, feel free to reach out to me!

Please find the details of my services & see if they fit your needs.

## Technology Stack

Following are the list of technologies I'm most familiar with:

| Services              |                                  Technology                                  |
| :-------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| Programming Languages |                               [Python][Python]                               |
| Backend               |                              [FastAPI][FastAPI]                              |
| Hosting               | [Heroku][Heroku] - [Amazon Web Services][AWS] - [Google Cloud Platform][GCP] |
| Machine Learning      |              [Scikit-Learn][Sklearn] - [TensorFlow][TensorFlow]              |
| Shell Scripting       |                   [PowerShell][PowerShell] - [Bash][Bash]                    |
| Development Platforms |                   [Windows 10][Windows] - [Ubuntu][Ubuntu]                   |
| Miscellaneous         |                     [GitHub][GitHub] - [Kaggle][Kaggle]                      |

**Note**: This tech stack is what I'm most confident with. In case you need help with something else, feel free to reach out to me. I might be able to help you out with something. :wink:

## Services

- **Software Development**: In need of a helping hand to setup a project or build you an application? Feel free to reach out to me.
- **Writing**: Need a Technical Writer to help you with a technical blog post or perhaps a book? Then look no further. Maybe, you're a company with a product looking to increase your user base? Then check out the [Sponsorship](../sponsorship/) page for collaboration opportunities.

## Rates & Payment Terms

I charge a flat rate of $75/hr for all services (except [Sponsorship](../sponsorship/) and/or collaboration deals). But, prices are subsidized for long-term projects (ones that could take 2+ months).

Payments are accepted over Direct Wire (preferred) and/or Transferwise. But, for whatever reasons, the payment transaction fails or can't be processed, PayPal works as well.

For any business queries, feel free to contact me. Here are my [contact details](../about/#contact-me).

<!-- Reference Links -->
<!-- * Programming Language -->
[Python]: https://www.python.org/
<!-- * Backend Services Tech -->
[FastAPI]: http://fastapi.tiangolo.com/
<!-- * Machine Learning Libraries -->
[TensorFlow]: https://www.tensorflow.org/
[Sklearn]: https://scikit-learn.org
<!-- * Cloud Platforms -->
[Heroku]: https://www.heroku.com/
[AWS]: https://aws.amazon.com/
[GCP]: https://cloud.google.com/
<!-- * Dev Platforms -->
[Windows]: https://www.microsoft.com/en-in/windows/get-windows-10
[Ubuntu]: https://ubuntu.com/
<!-- * Shell Scripting -->
[PowerShell]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/
[Bash]: https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/
<!-- * Miscellaneous -->
[GitHub]: https://github.com/Jarmos-san
[Kaggle]: https://www.kaggle.com/jarmos
<!-- * Personal -->
[Email]: mailto:somraj.mle@gmail.com
