content/sponsorship.md, before:

---
title: Sponsor Me
url: "/sponsorship"
hidemeta: true
disableShare: true
summary: Hire Somraj Saha for your professional needs. This section details his services, rates, skill sets & everything else you might want to know before hiring him.
description: Hire Somraj Saha for your professional needs. This section details his services, rates, skill sets & everything else you might want to know before hiring him.
draft: false

---

All my content are shared without charging a dime. In return all I ask off of my audience in return is a couple of minutes to read my articles. :grinning_face_with_big_eyes:

But it's not sustainable, I got to feed myself you know. So, if you would like to support me, this page contains details on how you can do so.

## Send a Token of Appreciation

Sometimes you read an article or used one of my open-sourced software, found it useful & want to send out a token appreciation. It's for circumstances like these did I create a [Buy me a coffee][Buy me a coffee] page. You can send over at least $5 (_the average price of a book I enjoy reading_) or whatever amount you deem fit.

Do ensure you leave a message with your name (_they're both optional on the platform though_). Your message could be something as simple as the name of a book you want me to read. Or it could be a simple shoutout you want me to do on social media! You be the judge & compose a befitting message to send along with the token.

That said, a monetary token of appreciation is completely optional! If you find whatever I contribute useful, doesn't matter trivial, I would like to know. So, if $5 is too much for you, a customary thank you email or an anonymous ["Say Thank You"][Say Thank You] message will also do.

Every kind messages & appreciation I receive motivates me to keep contributing for a good cause. :beaming_face_with_smiling_eyes:

## Review Post

The best & most appropriate means of sponsoring me, in my honest opinion is through review posts. Do you've a tech business or a product? You should send it over to me for a review & write one for my audiences to read.

I charge a standard $250 for a single reviewed post (_2000-6000 words_) with one cover image (_you choose the image_). In case you would want to customize the deliverable according to your needs, please reach out to me over email with a detailed description.

Do note, depending on the amount of customization you need with the article, I might charge higher than the standard rate.

## Guest Post

I absolutely adore collaborating with others on their projects! If you maintain a blog for yourself or your company, it would be my pleasure to write a guest post for it as well. The same standard rate as as the [Review Post](./#review-post) i.e $250 per article. Each article consists of 2000-6000 words & a cover image of your choice.

So, with everything said & done, I look forward to hearing from you soon. Do reach out to me through my [contact details](./about/#contact-me).

<!-- Reference Links -->
[Buy me a coffee]: https://www.buymeacoffee.com/jarmos
[Say Thank You]: https://saythanks.io/to/somraj.mle%40gmail.com

Commit message:

:poop: Polish the Sponsorship page

content/sponsorship.md, after:

---
title: Sponsorship/Collaboration Opportunities
url: "/sponsorship"
hidemeta: true
disableShare: true
summary: Hire Somraj Saha for your professional needs. This section details his services, rates, skill sets & everything else you might want to know before hiring him.
draft: false
---

Do you find the content I share interesting? Would you like to collaborate on projects that could benefit both of us? Or perhaps you would just like to send a token of appreciation for all the content I share with you. If that's the case, this page details all the information to might need to do so.

## Review Post

Does your company have a brand new product? Or perhaps you already have a product & have just recently introduced new features to it. Then I can review it & share a detailed write-up for my audience to learn something from.

A standard review post has around 2000-3000 words with at least one cover image for SEO necessities. The standard review article would cost you $299.

Need something more than the standard deliverables? Then feel free to reach out to me with your requirements & we can work out a deal.

## Guest Post

If you enjoy reading my content & you think my contribution to your blog will of some benefit to you. Then I would absolutely love an invite for guest post on your blog! Do reach out to me for collaboration opportunities & we can come up with a deal.

## Send a Token of Appreciation

Sometimes you read an article or used one of my open-sourced software, found it useful & want to send out a token appreciation. Hence, for reasons like these, I created a [Buy me a coffee][Buy me a coffee] page. You can send over a minimum of $5 (_the average price of a book I enjoy reading_) or whatever amount you deem fit.

Do ensure, you leave a message with your name (_they're both optional on the platform though_). The message could be something as simple as the name of the book you want me to read. Or it could be a simple shoutout you want me to do on social media! You be the judge & compose a befitting message to send along with the token.

That said, a monetary token of appreciation is completely optional! If you find whatever I contribute useful, doesn't matter trivial, I would like to know. So, if $5 is too much for you, a customary thank you email or an anonymous ["Say Thank You"][Say Thank You] message will also do.

Every kind message & appreciation I receive motivates me to keep contributing for a good cause. :beaming_face_with_smiling_eyes:

<!-- Reference Links -->
[Buy me a coffee]: https://www.buymeacoffee.com/jarmos
[Say Thank You]: https://saythanks.io/to/somraj.mle%40gmail.com
