---
title: "Terms of Service Agreement"
url: "/terms-of-service-agreement"
hidemeta: true
disableShare: true
summary: "Terms of Service Agreement for using Somraj Saha's blog."
draft: false
---

Last Revision Made On: **22-02-2021**

PLEASE READ THIS TERMS OF SERVICE AGREEMENT CAREFULLY. BY USING THIS WEBSITE,
SUBSRIBING TO OUR PRODUCTS AND/OR USING OUR SERVICES FROM THIS WEBSITE YOU AGREE
TO BE BOUND BY ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT.

This Terms of Service Agreement (the "**Agreement**") governs your use of this
website, [jarmos.netlify.app](../index.html) (the "**Website**"), business name
("Somraj Saha") offer of services and/or products for purchase and/or
subscription on this Website, or your purchase of products and/or subscriptions
available on this Website. This Agreement includes, and incorporates by this
reference, the policies and guidelines referenced below. Somraj Saha reserves
the right to change or revise the terms and conditions of this Agreement at any
time by posting any changes or a revised Agreement on this Website. Somraj Saha
will alert you that changes or revisions have been made by indicating on the top
of this Agreement the date it was last revised. The changes or revised Agreement
will be effective immediately after it is posted on this Website. Your use of
the Website following the posting any such changes or of a revised Agreement
will constitute your acceptance of any such changes or revisions. Somraj Saha
encourages you to review this Agreement whenever you visit the Website to make
sure that you understand the terms and conditions governing use of the Website.
This Agreement does not alter in any way the terms or conditions of any other
written agreement you may have with Somraj Saha for other products or services.
If you do not agree to this Agreement (including any referenced policies or
guidelines), please immediately terminate your use of the Website. If you would
like to print this Agreement, please click the print button on your browser
toolbar.

## I. PRODUCTS

Terms of Offer. This Website offers for sale certain products (the
"**Products**"). By placing an order for Products through this Website, you
agree to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.

**Reader Solicitation**: Unless you notify Somraj Saha, while they are
communicating with you, of your desire to opt out from further direct company
communications and solicitations, you are agreeing to continue to receive
further emails and solicitations from Somraj Saha.

**Opt Out Procedure**: We provide 3 easy ways to opt out of from future
solicitations.

1. You may use the opt out link found in any email solicitation that you may
   receive.
2. You may also choose to opt out, via sending your email address to:
   [somraj.mle@gmail.com](mailto:somraj.mle@gmail.com?subject=Email%20Opt-out).
3. You may send a written remove request to Somraj Saha's
   [mailing address](../privacy-policy/#grievance-complaints).

**Proprietary Rights**. Somraj Saha has proprietary rights and trade secrets in
the Products & Services mentioned in this Website. You may copy, reproduce,
resell or redistribute any Products & Services manufactured and/or distributed
by Somraj Saha under the Terms & Conditions of the [CC BY-NA 4.0][cc by-na 4.0].

**Sales Tax**. If you purchase any Products and/or Services, you will be
responsible for paying any applicable sales tax (_**if any**_).

## II. WEBSITE

Content; Intellectual Property; Third Party Links. In addition to making
Products available, this Website also offers information and marketing
materials. This Website also offers information, both directly and through
indirect links to third-party websites, about Information Technology (IT).
Somraj Saha does not always create the information offered on this Website;
instead the information is often gathered from other sources. To the extent that
Somraj Saha does create the content on this Website, such content is protected
by intellectual property laws of the India, foreign nations, and international
bodies. Unauthorized use of the material may violate copyright, trademark,
and/or other laws. You acknowledge that your use of the content on this Website
is for personal, noncommercial use. Any links to third-party websites are
provided solely as a convenience to you. Somraj Saha does not endorse the
contents on any such third-party websites. Somraj Saha is not responsible for
the content of or any damage that may result from your access to or reliance on
these third-party websites. If you link to third-party websites, you do so at
your own risk.

Use of Website; Somraj Saha is not responsible for any damages resulting from
use of this website by anyone. You will not use the Website for illegal
purposes. You will (1) abide by all applicable local, state, national, and
international laws and regulations in your use of the Website (including laws
regarding intellectual property), (2) not interfere with or disrupt the use and
enjoyment of the Website by other users, (3) not resell material on the Website,
(4) not engage, directly or indirectly, in transmission of "spam", chain
letters, junk mail or any other type of unsolicited communication, and (5) not
defame, harass, abuse, or disrupt other users of the Website

License. By using this Website, you are granted a limited, non-exclusive,
non-transferable right to use the content and materials on the Website in
connection with your normal, noncommercial, use of the Website under the Terms &
Conditions laid down by [CC BY-NA 4.0][cc by-na 4.0]. You may copy, reproduce,
transmit, distribute, or create derivative works of such content or information
with/without express written authorization from Somraj Saha or the applicable
third party (if third party content is at issue).

Sharing Information. By sharing your personal information, storing, or
transmitting any content with us on the Website, you hereby grant Somraj Saha a
perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-free, assignable, right and license
to use, copy, display, perform, create derivative works from, distribute, have
distributed, transmit and assign such content in any form, in all media now
known or hereinafter created, anywhere in the world. You are solely responsible
for your interactions with other users of the Website and any content they share
with you. Somraj Saha is not liable for any damage or harm resulting from any
posts by or interactions between users. Somraj Saha reserves the right, but has
no obligation, to monitor interactions between and among users of the Website
and to remove any content Somraj Saha deems objectionable, in Somraj Saha's sole
discretion.

## III. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES

YOUR USE OF THIS WEBSITE AND/OR PRODUCTS ARE AT YOUR SOLE RISK. THE WEBSITE AND
PRODUCTS ARE OFFERED ON AN "**AS IS**" AND "**AS AVAILABLE**" BASIS. SOMRAJ SAHA
EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT WITH RESPECT TO THE PRODUCTS OR
WEBSITE CONTENT, OR ANY RELIANCE UPON OR USE OF THE WEBSITE CONTENT OR PRODUCTS.
(**"PRODUCTS" INCLUDE TRIAL PRODUCTS.**)

WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, SOMRAJ SAHA MAKES NO WARRANTY:

NO ADVICE OR INFORMATION, WHETHER ORAL OR WRITTEN, OBTAINED BY YOU FROM THIS
WEBSITE WILL CREATE ANY WARRANTY NOT EXPRESSLY STATED HEREIN.

AS TO THE RESULTS THAT MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE USE OF THE PRODUCTS OR THAT
DEFECTS IN PRODUCTS WILL BE CORRECTED.

REGARDING ANY PRODUCTS PURCHASED OR OBTAINED THROUGH THE WEBSITE.

SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN WARRANTIES, SO SOME OF
THE ABOVE EXCLUSIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

## IV. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

SOMRAJ SAHA ENTIRE LIABILITY, AND YOUR EXCLUSIVE REMEDY, IN LAW, IN EQUITY, OR
OTHWERWISE, WITH RESPECT TO THE WEBSITE CONTENT AND PRODUCTS AND/OR FOR ANY
BREACH OF THIS AGREEMENT IS SOLELY LIMITED TO THE AMOUNT YOU PAID, LESS SHIPPING
AND HANDLING, FOR PRODUCTS AND/OR SERVICES PURCHASED VIA THE WEBSITE.

SOMRAJ SAHA WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR THE PRODUCTS IN ANY
MANNER, INCLUDING LIABILITIES RESULTING FROM (1) THE USE OR THE INABILITY TO USE
THE WEBSITE CONTENT OR PRODUCTS; (2) THE COST OF PROCURING SUBSTITUTE PRODUCTS
OR CONTENT; (3) ANY PRODUCTS PURCHASED OR OBTAINED OR TRANSACTIONS ENTERED INTO
THROUGH THE WEBSITE; OR (4) ANY LOST PROFITS YOU ALLEGE.

SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY FOR
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES SO SOME OF THE ABOVE LIMITATIONS MAY NOT
APPLY TO YOU.

## V. INDEMNIFICATION

You will release, indemnify, defend and hold harmless Somraj Saha, and any of
his contractors, agents, employees, officers, directors, shareholders,
affiliates and assigns from all liabilities, claims, damages, costs and
expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, of third parties
relating to or arising out of (1) this Agreement or the breach of your
warranties, representations and obligations under this Agreement; (2) the
Website content or your use of the Website content; (3) the Products or your use
of the Products (including Trial Products); (4) any intellectual property or
other proprietary right of any person or entity; (5) your violation of any
provision of this Agreement; or (6) any information or data you supplied to
Somraj Saha. When Somraj Saha is threatened with suit or sued by a third party,
Somraj Saha may seek written assurances from you concerning your promise to
indemnify Somraj Saha; your failure to provide such assurances may be considered
by Somraj Saha to be a material breach of this Agreement. Somraj Saha will have
the right to participate in any defense by you of a third-party claim related to
your use of any of the Website content or Products, with counsel of Somraj
Saha's choice at its expense. Somraj Saha will reasonably cooperate in any
defense by you of a third-party claim at your request and expense. You will have
sole responsibility to defend Somraj Saha against any claim, but you must
receive Somraj Saha a prior written consent regarding any related settlement.
The terms of this provision will survive any termination or cancellation of this
Agreement or your use of the Website or Products.

## VI. PRIVACY

Somraj Saha believes strongly in protecting user privacy and providing you with
notice of Somraj Saha's blog's use of data. Please refer to Somraj Saha's
[Privacy Policy](../privacy-policy/index.html), incorporated by reference
herein, that is posted on the Website.

## VI. AGREEMENT TO BE BOUND

By using this Website, ordering Products and/or subscribing to our Services, you
acknowledge that you have read and agree to be bound by this Agreement and all
terms and conditions on this Website.

## VIII. GENERAL

Force Majeure. Somaraj Saha will not be deemed in default hereunder or held
responsible for any cessation, interruption or delay in the performance of its
obligations hereunder due to earthquake, flood, fire, storm, natural disaster,
act of God, war, terrorism, armed conflict, labor strike, lockout, or boycott.

Cessation of Operation. Somraj Saha may at any time, in its sole discretion and
without advance notice to you, cease operation of the Website and distribution
of the Products.

Entire Agreement. This Agreement comprises the entire agreement between you and
Somraj Saha and supersedes any prior agreements pertaining to the subject matter
contained herein.

Effect of Waiver. The failure of Somraj Saha to exercise or enforce any right or
provision of this Agreement will not constitute a waiver of such right or
provision. If any provision of this Agreement is found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should
endeavor to give effect to the parties' intentions as reflected in the
provision, and the other provisions of this Agreement remain in full force and
effect.

Governing Law; [Supreme Court of India][supreme court of india]. This Website
originates from the city of Agartala in Tripura, India. This Agreement will be
governed by the laws of the State of India without regard to its conflict of law
principles to the contrary. Neither you nor Somraj Saha will commence or
prosecute any suit, proceeding or claim to enforce the provisions of this
Agreement, to recover damages for breach of or default of this Agreement, or
otherwise arising under or by reason of this Agreement, other than in courts
located in State of India. By using this Website or ordering and/or subscribing
to our Products, you consent to the jurisdiction and venue of such courts in
connection with any action, suit, proceeding or claim arising under or by reason
of this Agreement. You hereby waive any right to trial by jury arising out of
this Agreement and any related documents.

Statute of Limitation. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the
contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of the
Website or Products or this Agreement must be filed within one (1) year after
such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred.

Waiver of Class Action Rights. BY ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT, YOU HEREBY
IRREVOCABLY WAIVE ANY RIGHT YOU MAY HAVE TO JOIN CLAIMS WITH THOSE OF OTHER IN
THE FORM OF A CLASS ACTION OR SIMILAR PROCEDURAL DEVICE. ANY CLAIMS ARISING OUT
OF, RELATING TO, OR CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT MUST BE ASSERTED
INDIVIDUALLY.

Termination. Somraj Saha reserves the right to terminate your access to the
Website if it reasonably believes, in its sole discretion, that you have
breached any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Following
termination, you will not be permitted to use the Website and Somraj Saha may,
in its sole discretion and without advance notice to you, cancel any outstanding
orders for Products. If your access to the Website is terminated, Somraj Saha
reserves the right to exercise whatever means it deems necessary to prevent
unauthorized access of the Website. This Agreement will survive indefinitely
unless and until Somraj Saha chooses, in its sole discretion and without advance
to you, to terminate it.

Domestic Use. Somraj Saha makes no representation that the Website or Products
are appropriate or available for use in locations outside India. Users who
access the Website from outside India do so at their own risk and initiative and
must bear all responsibility for compliance with any applicable local laws.

Assignment. You may not assign your rights and obligations under this Agreement
to anyone. Somraj Saha may assign its rights and obligations under this
Agreement in its sole discretion and without advance notice to you.

BY USING THIS WEBSITE OR ORDERING PRODUCTS FROM THIS WEBSITE YOU AGREE TO BE
BOUND BY ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT.

<!-- Reference Links -->

[cc by-na 4.0]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/legalcode
[supreme court of india]: https://main.sci.gov.in/jurisdiction
