---
title: "ML Engineer vs Data Scientist: Whom Should You Hire?"
date: "2020-11-28"
category: Software Engineering
slug: ml-engineer-vs-data-scientists-who-should-you-choose
summary:
  Not sure if a specific business need of your company requires a Data Scientist
  or an ML Engineer? Then read ahead to find out more about it.
description:
  Not sure if a specific business need of your company requires a Data Scientist
  or an ML Engineer? Then read ahead to find out more about it.
cover:
  image: "covers/scientist-vs-engineer.gif"
  alt: "A GIF image showcasing a versus between an engineer & a scientist"
  caption:
    "The Data Scientist VS The ML Engineer: A Showdown | Source -- Somraj Saha
    (Author)"
  relative: false
showtoc: true
---

Some time ago, a client approached me with a project proposal. He wanted me to
use a certain Product-Market framework & write an article from a Data
Scientist’s POV. His reasoning, “_my Machine Learning skills could prove useful
to analyze the drawbacks and/or gaps in the framework to add to it_”. And to be
clear here, I’m no Data Scientist by craft either.

A couple of emails later, it didn’t take me long to realize his requirements.
His target audience for the article were individuals in a non-engineering field.
Perhaps, marketing (my assumption) or maybe analysts.

It made me wonder, are my credentials on
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jarmos/),
[GitHub](https://github.com/jarmos-san) or heck, even
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/Jarmosan) not visible to anyone? The fact that the
prospect reached out to me with a data science task instead a software
engineering job, points out to something. The issue of ambiguity in the roles of
a Data Science/Machine Learning practitioner.

The responsibilities of a Data Scientist and an ML Engineer are often
interrelated. Depending on the size of the company, it wouldn't be surprising to
see a Data Scientist working as "the Engineer". In other words, startups,
especially those in the early-stages, resort to hiring Data Scientists as the
Swiss knife for all their analytics, data science modelling, productionizing ML
models & other needs. Those were some common roles to name a few.

It’s common for a Data Scientist to be expected to wear many hats in the
industry & that’s the root problem.

Although, as of writing this article, the trend within the industry is changing
for the better. An increasing number of companies have realised the benefits of
the [Division of Labour](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Division_of_labour).
They've been hiring individuals with specific skill sets in either ML or Data
Science. Not both.

Even then, some entrepreneurs are still not sure if a Data Scientist will be the
right for an analytical job. The client who reached out to me was one such
entrepreneur. But he wasn’t the first & willn’t be the last either. It’s because
of individuals like them articles like this -
[Data Analyst vs Business Analyst. Here's the Difference](https://towardsdatascience.com/data-analyst-vs-business-analyst-heres-the-difference-e702f288aaa3)
by Matt Przybyla exist. This article is proof of the need to define the various
subfields of Data Science.

Hence, for the sake of the Machine Learning community & as David Robinson says
in his [tweet](https://twitter.com/drob/status/928447584712253440?s=20),

> _When you've written the same code 3 times, write a function_
>
> _When you've given the same in-person advice 3 times, write a blog post_

Hence, this article on the topic of Data <_something_> role vs Machine Learning
Engineer is my contribution to the community. By the end of the article, you
will have enough idea of the respective responsibilities of an ML Engineer or
the Data Scientist.

## Why Does a Clear Distinction Between These Roles Even Matter?

The plain & simple answer to the question is Division of Labour. As Adam Smith &
countless other political economists of his time, before him & after as well,
stated, the improved efficiency & increase in greater skill gained from the
division of labor is hard to pass on.

And from an entrepreneur's perspective, this almost sounds like a free lunch to
me.

Often businesses operate under tight financial constraints. Hence having an ML
Engineer focus on only one task, say ensuring the data science models are
production-ready, saves both time & money. This way the engineer can take care
of any blocking issues. And I'll not have to worry about being that boss who
switch contexts at a whim.

Beside the not-so obvious benefits from a business perspective, there're other
benefits as well. Some which you might or mightn’t have realized already.

A clearly defined set of responsibilities, work in favor of the employees to
better understand the goals of the project. They can then set aside time &
resources as required to achieve that goal. Besides, a major factor to consider
is, not to burden the employees with overwork.

A defined designation of roles does have many obvious added advantages then. So
if that's how it is, what specific work should the Data Scientist and/or the ML
Engineer be assigned to? In other words, how do you define responsibilities for
that job position?

The next section attempts to answer these questions.

## Who're ML Engineers Or Data Scientists & What Do They Do?

This article is one of many similar articles on the same topic “_Machine
Learning Engineer vs Data Scientists_”. Those articles often describe their
respective responsibilities of those roles. But the descriptions are factual &
only explain job descriptions, that’s it, nothing more & nothing less. None of
those contents explain the specifics that define the two job responsibilities.

One such article I stumbled upon & also the one which inspired me to write this
article is 
[Machine Learning Engineer vs. Data Scientist](https://www.springboard.com/blog/machine-learning-engineer-vs-data-scientist/)
on the Springboard Blog by Andrew Zola. The article is factual as expected, but
sheds enough light onto the differences. In other words, a perfect article,
brief enough for anyone to quickly grasp the differences between a Data
Scientist & a Machine Learning Engineer.

Just so you don't have to go through the article, here's a brief summary of the
article.

The author mentions ML Engineers as individuals who leverage big data
frameworks. Beside, their in-depth coding skills are also used to build
intelligent programs. They’re also responsible for productionising theoretical
data science models into practical applications.

Fair enough. That's very atypical of any engineer from any background regardless
of their domain.

To reiterate on his definition, the ML Engineer is like any other traditional
software developer. But the only extra skills are those which are necessary to
work within an ML environment. While Data Scientists are individuals who look
into all aspects of the business, to develop programs (not necessarily software)
as per the requirements.

In other words, a Data Scientist handles tasks more akin to what a typical
analyst has been doing for ages. “_Data Scientists_” is just a fancy term (or
designation) given to them only after the recent AI hype.

It’s not uncommon to find Data Scientists with only limited programming
knowledge. After all, querying a SQL Database , making some visualizations using
Python/R are often all the tasks they are ever expected to do. At most, they’re
responsible for designing the data science model for implementation into a
production-ready app.

At a glance, the two roles have very distinct & defined roles, yet employers
don't seem to care about them. Could it be a simple coincidence? Or maybe the
employer didn’t know what skill set is needed to solve a business problem?

To get a better understanding of the situation, let's take a look at some job
descriptions. And the following section will do exactly that.

## What Skills Are Employers Looking For & Their Job Descriptions

On paper, anyone can point out distinct responsibilities for specific roles. But
there's no saying it'll be the same out there. Often job postings are put up by
individuals who're not aware about the intricate details of the roles. Or the
entrepreneur could've delegated the responsibility of hiring to a recruiter. The
recruiter then unknowingly lists out all those requirements under one job
posting.

Weird, I know, but happens more often than you would realize. Don’t believe me?
Then check out the screenshots below. They're examples of actual job postings I
picked up from Indeed.com while writing the article.

With that said, let's take a look at some of the job descriptions for a ML
project. Below is a screenshot I picked up from one such job ad posting.

![Screenshot of an ML job posting](https://github.com/Jarmos-san/blog/blob/master/content/static/images/ml-job-screenshot.png?raw=true)

([Screenshot 1](https://in.indeed.com/jobs?q=Machine%20Learning%20Engineer&advn=9253950511738984&vjk=f5ecb2c0b2ec054c)
as on 23rd November 2020)

At a quick glance, there's nothing of significance in the screenshot above.
Pretty normal for a job description for any traditional software development
roles.

But on the flip side, job descriptions of Data Scientists are often vague &
kinda similar to other software-related positions.

Check it out for yourself.

![Screenshot of a Data Science job posting](https://github.com/Jarmos-san/blog/blob/master/content/static/images/data-science-job-posting.png?raw=true)

([Sreenshot 2](https://in.indeed.com/jobs?q=data%20scientist&vjk=fb0f54d442bf42c4)
as on 23rd November 2020)

This screenshot is a prime example where it’s not clear what the Data Scientist
is expected to do. It’s a hodgepodge of all sorts of responsibilities dumped on
one single individual to take care of.

## How Should You Adhere To Specific Designations?

There's some opinionated advice in this section. And by no means should you feel
obligated to adhere to this advice. But I expect my readers to make an informed
judgement by themselves based on their needs.

1. Designations don't matter. Yes, you read it right. Reading the article till
   here, that statement must've caught you by surprise? But here's why. For
   employees to wear many hats in a startup is often beneficial in the
   short-run. But as the manager or even the founder, expecting your employees
   to tackle many responsibilities is a bad sign. It signifies an inability to
   manage scarce resources. Most important of all it shows the founder's
   inability to use the employer's time properly.

2. Be clear on the job description about the responsibilities the employee
   should tackle.

3. Understand specific problem areas in the business & hire accordingly.
   Prospective employees with particular skill sets should be assigned to
   specific problems.

4. It’s easy to switch contexts in a Data Science/Machine Learning business
   environment. The ambiguous nature of the fields puts the employee in a
   situation where their skills can prove useful in many ways. Avoid it at all
   costs, if possible. This is easier to remember when ML is seen as a sub-field
   of Data Science & not the other way around.

My final words.

Designations are mere names we give each other for the sake of simplicity. And
they're helpful in understanding the respective roles of operation of a
business. What names are assigned to the roles don’t matter. What matters is,
the work to be completed & shipped. Communicating those goals should be priority
over specific designations.

And as entrepreneurs, be sure about the needs & requirements of the business.
Communicate them to your employees properly.
