content/posts/reviewing-popular-static-site-generators.md, before:

---
title: A Review of Some of the Most Popular Static Site Generators
draft: true
date: "2021-02-04"
category: Blogging
slug: reviewing-popular-static-site-generators
summary: A brief review of the popular static site generators. Which one should you use, why & much more.
description: A brief review of the popular static site generators. Which one should you use, why & much more.
cover:
    image: "covers/static-site-generators-review.png"
    alt: "A visual of a woman confused while choosing between many available SSGs."
    caption: "So confusing! Which Static Site Generator should I use?"
    relative: true
showtoc: true
---

The beginning of 2020 was when I wanted to start my own personalized blog. Suffice to say, as I shopped around with available options, I figured each software (_or platform_) has something or the other to offer. While there's Wordpress, it requires a server backend & periodic security management. That's something I didn't want to get into, if I didn't have to. All I wanted was a way write content in [Markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org/) & generate the static files (_think HTML + CSS + JavaScript files_) to be hosted on a CDN.

My initial attempt to do so was with [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) which didn't work out (_because I was still an inexperienced developer_). So, I jumped ship to [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/) & [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) which didn't work out either! _\*sighs\*_. But on a brighter note, I did come to terms (_for a while_) with a pretty good Static Site Generator (SSG) called [Pelican](https://blog.getpelican.com/).

Alas, I couldn't stay faithful to Pelican either for long. I'm using [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) to generate the static content of the site you're reading off of right now. And you could say I'm pretty satisfied with the outcome, for now.

I might appear fickle-minded to you but rest assured, the lessons I learnt might be useful for you if you want to start your own blog.

That said, without further ado, let's review some of the most popular SSGs or at least the ones I've used.

## Specific Aspects That Makes a SSG Worth It

- Easy installation process
- Legibility of the documentations
- Ease of use
- Availability of good-looking & modern themes
- Ease of customizing the available themes

## Jekyll & GitHub Pages

Jekyll is [advertised as a one-stop solution](https://docs.github.com/en/github/working-with-github-pages/setting-up-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll) for all your blogging needs. It's expected to work out-of-the-box without much configuration & complicated setup. And it's by far one of the most easiest to use among all the other SSGs mentioned in this article.

There're probably hundreds, if not thousands of themes both free & paid. You can find some of the resources to find themes listed of the [official Jekyll themes page](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/). And you might find many more on GitHub, maintained by the community & made available free of costs.

While using Jekyll might be straightforward, I doubt you could say the same for installing it. Well, it's not "difficult to install" or something but the fact that you'll need to have a local Ruby runtime on your machine kinda triggers me.

Yeah, I'm being nitpicky here but if installing a runtime which you'll probably never use again outside of Jekyll doesn't bother you a bit, then go ahead with it.

## Gatsby: A React.js Framework to Build Static Sites



## Pelican: A Static Site Generator Built With Python

## Hugo: The Fastest Static Site Generator Ever Created

## Final Thoughts

Commit message:

📝 Write first draft of the common aspects section

content/posts/reviewing-popular-static-site-generators.md, after:

---
title: A Review of Some of the Most Popular Static Site Generators
date: "2021-02-04"
category: Blogging
slug: reviewing-popular-static-site-generators
summary: A brief review of the popular static site generators. Which one should you use, why & much more.
description: A brief review of the popular static site generators. Which one should you use, why & much more.
cover:
    image: "covers/static-site-generators-review.png"
    alt: "A visual of a woman confused while choosing between many available SSGs."
    caption: "So confusing! Which Static Site Generator should I use?"
    relative: true
showtoc: true
draft: true
---

The beginning of 2020 was when I wanted to start my own personalized blog. Suffice to say, as I shopped around with available options, I figured each software (_or platform_) has something or the other to offer. While there's Wordpress, it requires a server backend & periodic security management. That's something I didn't want to get into, if I didn't have to. All I wanted was a way write content in [Markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org/) & generate the static files (_think HTML + CSS + JavaScript files_) to be hosted on a CDN.

My initial attempt to do so was with [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) which didn't work out (_because I was still an inexperienced developer_). So, I jumped ship to [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/) & [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) which didn't work out either! _\*sighs\*_. But on a brighter note, I did come to terms (_for a while_) with a pretty good Static Site Generator (SSG) called [Pelican](https://blog.getpelican.com/).

Alas, I couldn't stay faithful to Pelican either for long. I'm using [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) to generate the static content of the site you're reading off of right now. And you could say I'm pretty satisfied with the outcome, for now.

I might appear fickle-minded to you but rest assured, the lessons I learnt might be useful for you if you want to start your own blog.

That said, without further ado, let's review some of the most popular SSGs or at least the ones I've used.

## Specific Aspects That Makes a SSG Worth It

On my journey towards trying out a number of SSGs, I discovered none is better than the other. Each has something unique to offer. Perhaps, your site has a lot of individual pages then Hugo will be a good choice. Or maybe you need a modern & fast website, then Gatsby should be your choice. While having choices are a good thing, reviewing each tool against each other is hard (if not close to impossible). Hence, I thought it would be better to list out some common grounds where each SSG could be compared against each other.

That said here are the common points I considered for reviewing each SSG:

- **Easy installation process** - As in, installing the tool(s) required to get the SSG in question up & running shouldn't be difficult even for a non-technical individual.
- **Legibility of the documentations** - Can't emphasis on this point enough! I'll discuss in more details on the importance of this point.
- **Ease of use** - A subjective point-of-view since what's easy for me to use mightn't be the same for the other individual. More on it will be discussed in the rest of the article.
- **Availability of good-looking & modern themes** - This point is almost a no-brainer. Why would someone not choose Wordpress with so many good-looking & modern themes over SSGs. Living in the 21st century, support for good-looking themes (_paid/free_) is a must-have for any SSGs.
- **Ease of customizing the available themes** - You got hold of you preferred SSG, discovered a nice theme (_extra kudos if it was free & open-sourced_), all good & dandy. But there's just some subtle thing about the theme bothering you, maybe the font or maybe the background color. Whatever it be, the themes you use for your blog has to let you customize it in some way or the other.

So, those were some of common aspects which all SSGs I review should've at the least. It's not worth using a particular SSG which lacks any of the mentioned points above.

That said, lets dive into it & check out which SSG is great for you & your workflow.

## Jekyll & GitHub Pages

Jekyll is [advertised as a one-stop solution](https://docs.github.com/en/github/working-with-github-pages/setting-up-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll) for all your blogging needs. It's expected to work out-of-the-box without much configuration & complicated setup. And it's by far one of the most easiest to use among all the other SSGs mentioned in this article.

There're probably hundreds, if not thousands of themes both free & paid. You can find some of the resources to find themes listed of the [official Jekyll themes page](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/). And you might find many more on GitHub, maintained by the community & made available free of costs.

While using Jekyll might be straightforward, I doubt you could say the same for installing it. Well, it's not "difficult to install" or something but the fact that you'll need to have a local Ruby runtime on your machine kinda triggers me.

Yeah, I'm being nitpicky here but if installing a runtime which you'll probably never use again outside of Jekyll doesn't bother you a bit, then go ahead with it.

## Gatsby: A React.js Framework to Build Static Sites



## Pelican: A Static Site Generator Built With Python

## Hugo: The Fastest Static Site Generator Ever Created

## Final Thoughts

<!-- Move all hyperlinks to this section & reference them as footers for a clean-looking file. -->
