---
title:
  "Domain Knowledge — The Second Most Important Skill to Have as a Data
  Scientist"
date: "2020-03-03"
category: Data Science
slug: the-second-most-important-skill-for-a-data-scientist
summary:
  You mightn’t realize it but if you’ve ample years of experience in a very
  specific domain of expertise, you might be eligible to be part of a Data
  Science team.
description:
  You mightn’t realize it but if you’ve ample years of experience in a very
  specific domain of expertise, you might be eligible to be part of a Data
  Science team.
cover:
  image: "https://miro.medium.com/max/1620/0*-qXHihGXHpTceAcg"
  alt: "A man looking at a rack of books"
  caption: "Photo by Matthew Feeney on Unsplash"
  relative: false
showtoc: true
---

## Data Science, dig right into building models, who cares about Domain Knowledge, Right?

_Data Science is all in the blaze at the moment!_ A quick search of the keyword
on Google yields not a Wikipedia page of the field but hundreds of tutorials &
courses on the first page of the search results.

Although not a bad thing per se, the easily accessible online learning resources
helped a lot of self-learners, myself included, to wet our feet into the ocean.
Without which, it’s difficult to comprehend trying to learn all by ourselves.
Surprisingly though, I noticed how rare it is, to come across any mention of
“Domain Knowledge” in those resources, albeit even briefly.

Perhaps, they are more targeted towards the misguidance of “learn Data Science
in a month and top the Kaggle leaderboards!” which is a major problem the
community needs to address urgently. Rather than making people competent to be
employable in a Data Science role, the massive online learning platforms are
only churning out incompetent “programmers” who think a simple RandomForests
Classifier from the Scikit-learn library is a solution to all problems!

Granted, basic Statistics, Mathematics & coding skills are some of the harder
skills to pick up, the prospect of a minimum viable subject matter expertise is
more often than not, neglected by a Data Scientist. But in contrast, Subject
Matter Expertise should be considered king! Especially with extensive experience
working in a specific field it could potentially be the most valuable skill in
his/her bag.

## Domain Knowledge — How Does It Help a Business

Contrary to what was mentioned earlier, notice how most participants in a Kaggle
competition don’t have any substantial subject matter expertise. Yet, regardless
of the absence, they go ahead to win competitions one after the other with a
high score in the leaderboards.

And that’s because, fortunately, someone, somewhere, was smart enough to think &
ease the process of making predictions. Thus high-level Predictive Analysis
libraries like Scikit-Learn do most of the heavy lifting in the backend, yet,
the libraries are robust enough to still yield surprisingly good results even
with default parameters. With just a couple of lines of code, literally, any
Tom, Dick & Harry is capable of training a model on the dataset & submitting it
to Kaggle, achieving at least a top 50% score on the leaderboard with minimal
effort.

On the flip side, businesses work under major financial & time constraints while
trying to sustain their place in the market. Not to forget, they are also in the
market to sustainably create a profit margin for themselves. Besides in general,
for most businesses, it’s just not viable enough to invest in developing an
algorithm specific to their domain, in-house. Hence, they hire for the much
needed Data Science role, hoping that the new hire would help resolve the
problem they were facing. Also if an opportunity arises, to move forward with it
or possibly, to capitalize on it.

## Why is Domain Knowledge essential for a Data Scientist

Interrelated to each other, yet clearly distinguishable, three aspects of Domain
Knowledge, a Data Scientist should keep in mind, can be defined in context to
the —

1. The source problem, the business is trying to resolve and/or capitalize on.
2. The set of specialized information or expertise held by the business.
3. The exact know-how, for domain-specific data collection mechanisms.

On the other hand, a rather unfortunate misconception the general public has
about Data Science & ML is, how ML & AI is the mythical Noah’s Ark, set on
resolving every trivial problem ever faced.

Depicted humorously, the author summed it up on the XKCD comic --
["Machine Learning"](https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/machine_learning.png) where
Data Scientists are viewed as wizards from Hogwarts with a Magic Wand named
“Machine Learning” capable of resolving any problem they’re facing or want to
make some profits from.

But contradictory to popular belief, a Data Scientist needs to prioritize
planning ahead with a sustainable & logical business strategy, followed by the
implementation. To give an analogy, constructing a Space Shuttle to travel
between New York & Tokyo sounds like a fool’s errand. Similarly, a Cats & Dogs
classifier doesn’t have any sustainable & profitable business prospects.
Instead, adapting to the business sector & gaining the necessary knowledge of
the domain will be more beneficial to the business overall, rather than the
technical know-how to build the prediction algorithm right away.

Secondly, and perhaps the most discussed topic in the Data Science community is
in context to the information held by the business. This information acts as the
Rosetta Stone, helping the analysts find better ways and/or means to perform
his/her job. Prior information about the industry & the domain augments the
process of making more precise & accurate predictive models based on the
available features in the dataset. The other benefit being that, the model would
then generalize better into real-world situations.

Besides, emphasis on the importance of Feature Engineering & how doing so can
improve the overall accuracy of the model are common & is a topic of discussions
across every corner of the community. But performing proper & insightful feature
engineering is a skill, only a few experienced ones among the whole bunch is
capable of doing properly.

Hence, reminds me, that I came across a rather interesting piece of work by
Xavier Martinez published at — Catalonia GDP: Insights & Regression Analysis
which is a very detailed & prime example of feature engineering components of a
dataset to create newer columns/features for further analysis. He predicted the
Catalonia GDP growth rate based on feature engineered GDP components from the
dataset & it shows how being extensively versed in a domain can help make very
insightful & precise observations. Xavier did exactly that, based on what we
Economists call a “_Demand-Driven Growth_”.

Lastly, note that while you read through this article, 1.7 mb of data is being
generated worldwide each second which accounts to 2.5 quintillion bytes of data
per day. That’s a whole lot of data to harness & process [1]. Comprehending what
portion, the how & when to process that chunk of data, is paramount. Not only
would it reduce inefficiency in the business operations, but as mentioned
earlier, time & finances are the biggest constraints for a business. Being able
to trim down to just the bare minimum for the required analysis helps reduce
costs & processing time as well.

## The Community Should Be More Vocal About Domain Knowledge

Hence, I assume it is safe to conclude stating the importance of focusing on
Domain Knowledge in a Data Science role. Besides, it’s the community that should
preach about the same only then would a business find a competent employee for a
Data Science role in his/her company. But bear in mind, even with all the
preaching, Domain Knowledge can be picked up while on the job and isn’t much of
a difficult thing either but neglecting it, would be utter irresponsibility.

## References

[1] Domo,
[Data Never Sleeps 6.0](https://www.domo.com/learn/data-never-sleeps-6) (2020)
