---
title: "Why/How Should You Treat Your Open-Source Project As a Business"
date: "2020-10-11"
category: Open-Source
summary:
  Your open-source project is no different from a startup. Consider it as one &
  ensure its success. Here's a trivial framework to build upon.
description:
  Your open-source project is no different from a startup. Consider it as one &
  ensure its success. Here's a trivial framework to build upon.
cover:
  image: "https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2560/1*izeOstXVPngxTQpsCen3qg.jpeg"
  alt: "A open sign handing from a door"
  caption: "Photo by Leyre Labarga on Unsplash"
  relative: false
showtoc: true
---

The early 2000s witnessed the rise of the software revolution. With it came the
idea of
“[Free & Open-Source Software](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software)
(FOSS)” after Richard Stallman initiated his
[Free Software Movement](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_software_movement).
And in 2020, Open-Source Software is almost the new standard within the software
industry[1]. So much so that recruiters often expect new budding software
developers to “contribute to” open-source software projects. Or other times, an
open-source software (not necessarily free though) is chosen over a proprietary
one by the consumers simply due to the quality assurance & trust factor. But as
tech giants like Microsoft, Facebook, Google, etc are also actively
participating in the open-source community, how does your open-source venture
compete against them?

The rest of the article will attempt at answering that exact question.

## The Initial User Base Will Probably Be Developers, But You Should Diversify

Most developers share their knowledge openly on one platform or the other. So
it’s not surprising for developers to share their creations for anyone to
access, use, develop further or whatever else they want with it. But this
article isn’t just about creating & sharing your code for the community. More
specifically, this article attempts at shining light on businesses revolving
around an open-source product. In other words, the source code of the product is
readily available for anyone to look into, copy, recreate it, etc.

With that in mind, how do you run a thriving business around it, is a question
not many developers are aware of. Why? Because, as I mentioned just a while ago,
developers tend to share their knowledge without expecting anything in return.

To reiterate on the statement let's tread down the memory lane. For those of you
who are old enough to experience the 90s era software industry, you must be well
aware of the times when consumer-grade software was considered totally
proprietary. Giving away the source code of your software to the consumers was
unheard of let alone open-sourcing it to the public. The practice of sharing
source code along with the software was an activity popular among academicians,
government agencies & perhaps some corporate officials. The effect of the trend
still persists to this day, at least to an extent. Although, it appears to be
changing as more & more businesses are starting to revolve around open-source
products.

Examples of such startups/businesses are: [MindsDB](https://www.mindsdb.com/),
[Gatsby, Inc](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/) with their GatsbyJs & Gatsby Cloud or
even [Ghost CMS](https://ghost.org/) by the Ghost Foundation. Obviously there
are countless more like them but these are the one which started as recently
as 2019.

But the caveat with these startups is: They all provide an open-source software,
quality-checked & maintained by a team of in-house developers. But also provided
hosted services to their clients. Clients who are not necessarily tech-savvy
enough to build/host their requirements on their infrastructure.

Another example would be the case of the two very popular Operating Systems -
Windows & the Linux-based distro, Ubuntu. Both Microsoft & Canonical provide
customer support with their products, the difference is in the background of
their customers. While Microsoft provides support primarily to non-technical
individuals, Canonical serves their enterprise customers. All good & dandy, keep
serving your niche group of customers & forget the rest, right?

Alas, in the long run businesses can’t focus on serving just one group of
customers for eternity. Basic business 101, diversify as soon as you can. Going
back to the Microsoft & Canonical example, even they’ve started to diversify
only recently. While Microsoft has started to embrace open-source as well
developer tools, Canonical is starting to streamline using their products for
their non-tech user base.

Suffice to say, the philosophical idea behind the Free Software Movement might
entice you, but your project risks going under sooner or later without a
financial cushion. So remember while your product might be useful for the
developers, initially, you need to think of a way to serve the rest of the
market as well. The problem though, non-developers don’t give a flying damn
about open-source. It’s just yet another fancy term to them.

So lesson one; build a niche product with the developers-first approach.
Diversify from there on, gradually & eventually.

## Existing Business Models, Adopt It (For Now) & Adapt (Later)

If you hadn’t realized it already but I already gave you examples of existing
business models around open-source software. If you guessed it, yeah you’re
right Microsoft with their wide user base, it’s easier for them to delve into
the community. And Microsoft open-source products **ARE ACTUALLY GOOD** without
any doubt. Similar to Canonical’s model of serving their professional &
enterprise-grade clients, Red Hat is on the same boat. With their
[Red Hat Enterprise Linux](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/linux-platforms/enterprise-linux)
(RHEL) you can expect a battle-tested Linux distribution which if breaks for
some reason, you need not worry one bit. Because Red Hat will hand-hold you &
your business with every little infrastructure details you need to set up RHEL
properly. So just like Red Hat and/or Canonical, you could provide professional
human resources for your clients.

Understandably, most open-source projects don’t really have the capital to start
providing professional services from the get-go. So what’re some alternatives to
it then? Ad revenue & corporate tie-ups are a thing lately among open-source
project maintainers. For example, [Read The Docs](https://readthedocs.org/)
provides free CI/CD as well as hosting services for project documentations &
they generate revenue by
[displaying small ad banners on project documentations](https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/advertising/).
Or even better if you can build a partnership with more established businesses
like Mozilla’s partnership with Google Search.

But by far the most sustainable model in my opinion would be to provide a SaaS
or perhaps tiered services (a free tier & paid tier with additional features).
The term “open-source” & “SaaS” appears to be for each other specifically.
[Matomo](https://matomo.org/) & [Ghost](https://ghost.org/) are two perfect
examples which are open-source but provide their software as a service to their
clients as well in case they need managed software. This way the project is
open-source, you don’t necessarily need a lot of capital and/or human resources,
neither do you’ve to rely on ads which can often be very intrusive. No one likes
ads, let’s just face it.

Are they the only models around? Not really, but these are definitely the ones
which are battle-tested & reliable enough. Will they, as they’re described in
the article, word-to-word work for your projects? Perhaps, yes. There’s a good
chance it’ll but in the long run you should definitely change & adapt as per the
market demands.

So lesson two; stick to tried-and-tested business models for now. Startups &
businesses touted as “disrupting the market” often fall the hardest when or if
they ever do.

## Be Professional. Period

I’ve been involved with the open-source community for awhile now. And one thing
I noticed is the lack of professionalism among some maintainers (not
generalizing though). I mean, yeah you shared your project, for free at that!
The community is grateful for your contribution, really they are. And when a
business needs support for something they can’t help themselves with your
project, what’s with the patronizing behaviour?

This rather worrisome situation became more obvious after a recent patronizing
disagreement related to a popular open-source web server project named
[Actix-web](https://github.com/actix/actix-web). I won’t be disclosing the names
of those involved due to bash mob & bullying. But you can Google about it to
know more.

Heck, even Python’s creator Guido van Rossum wasn’t safe from this toxic
behaviour which is spreading within the community in recent times. Guido
eventually resigned from his position as BDFL after years of handling constant
nitpicking targeted at him. [2] In an email where he responds shows his clear
sense of disappointment.

> _Now that PEP 572 is done, I don't ever want to have to fight so hard for a
> PEP and find that so many people despise my decisions._

Guido is just of the many disappointed souls whose words have been heard, there
are many whose voice of sadness has landed on deaf ears. It’s unfortunate to see
how the community is only becoming more & more toxic as open-source projects are
becoming popular. This sudden toxic outpouring, in my opinion, can be attributed
to superiority complex most maintainers feel in my opinion. The software
industry is divided; at one end some developers go through
[Impostor Syndronme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impostor_syndrome) while the
rest has a
[Superiority Complex](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superiority_complex).

Suffice to say, if you’re too proud to see through the meaning of building a
relationship with your product’s user base, your project will not succeed to its
full potential, ever. With that said, should you never feel proud of your
creations? There’s nothing wrong to be proud of your creations. In fact be proud
of it, let that pride fuel your motivation to convince your customers to use the
product. But pride shouldn’t be mistaken with toxicity.

Lesson three; Keep personal problems & opinions aside while dealing with your
project. If needed take a break, you deserve it, maintaining an open-source
project is no easy task.

## Prioritize Financing Yourself First & Then the Project

As much as we developers would like to keep working on our open-source projects
without worrying about finances, it’s just not feasible. We’ve to feed
ourselves, often our families as well. Working & maintaining unpaid is
difficult, often resulting in projects being abandoned abruptly.

End-users of open-source software often take it for granted, this software will
exist for eternity & will never break as it didn’t in the past. Myself included,
thought about it the same way until I recently heard this recent podcast -
[Resolving Package Dependencies With New Version of Pip](https://youtu.be/uZtVq2Isy5o)
by Real Python.

In the podcast one of the guests made a Call-To-Action requesting to fund the
development of the [Pip project](https://pypi.org/project/pip/) or if possible
volunteer for maintenance. Apparently, their funding has run out & after January
2021, the project will be completely maintained by volunteer efforts.

It sounds pretty worrying to me if you ask. I mean pip is the de facto package
management system available for the Python programming language. And it not
being actively maintained by the official team anymore definitely should bother
it’s users.

Similar to pip countless other developers are forced to abandon their projects
regardless they want to do so or not. One primary reason behind it being, lack
of a financial cushion.

Luckily, with the advent of
[GitHub Sponsors](https://github.blog/2019-05-23-announcing-github-sponsors-a-new-way-to-contribute-to-open-source/)
the situation is changing. Now the open-source project maintainers can afford to
work on their projects full-time while being directly funded by the users. With
GitHub’s system the developer needn’t even vocally request for funding anymore.

This raises a question though. By sponsoring the developer(s)/maintainer(s)
directly isn’t it a violation of the core ethics of the idea behind the
Open-Source Software Movement?

In a way it is & is exactly why non-profit organizations like
[Python Software Foundation](https://www.python.org/psf/) among few others
doesn’t assign the role of a Core Developer to more than two individuals from
the same company. But again, if you’ve read the article till here, you’re
probably looking for ways to make a profit from open-source projects. So to be
fair the philosophical ethics of the idea of the open-source movement doesn’t
really apply to the project from a business perspective.

So lesson three; Don’t nail your feet to the ground by sticking to the core
ideas of the open-source movement. In a hypothetical scenario, if that’s how it
was then Microsoft, Google, Facebook, etc wouldn’t have actively participated in
the community. Be shameless in seeking funding for your project. There’s nothing
wrong with it.

## Final Words

You decided to open-source your project to the community for anyone to download,
use, recreate & developer further which is great! People are using your software
& is growing in popularity each day. So you see a business opportunity in your
project. Hence the entrepreneurial side of you decides to take the plunge to try
& see if your project can be profitable which is great as well!

But now that the product already has a significant user base, you’ve no clue how
to turn it into a business. You fear that charging your users out-of-nowhere for
using the product might make them lose interest in it. And to be honest, it’s a
possibility. But not if you can mould your business around the ideas described
in this article. Bear in mind, obviously these are mere suggestions & not set in
stone, so you’re free to adapt your business according to market demands.

So here’s a recap of the suggestions described above:

1. Open-Source projects are more predominant among developers & technically
   aware individuals. But you should diversify your user-base as soon as you
   can. Adapt your business and/or your product to fit the needs of a non-tech
   individual as well.

2. Existing business models as those employed by popular open-source project
   supporters like Red Hat & Canonical Ltd are battle-tested. Use them
   initially, only adapt as per the needs of your market & the user-base.

3. Being an open-source project maintainer doesn’t make you an “elite software
   developer”. You’re no less than the regular 9-5 full-time developer working
   on legacy infrastructure. Act professional & keep personal feelings aside.

4. Work on setting up a financial cushion. An open-source project is no
   different from working on your startup.

So these are four suggestions you should keep in mind no matter what for working
on a business around your open-source project. While they aren’t set in stone
but should definitely be treated as a starting point for any project.

### References

[1] Katie Brigham,
[How open-source software became the new industry standard](https://www.cnbc.com/2019/12/14/how-open-source-software-became-the-new-industry-standard.html)
(2019), CNBC

[2] Guido van Rossum,
[[python-committers] Transfer of power](https://www.mail-archive.com/python-committers@python.org/msg05628.html)
(2018), [python.org](https://www.python.org/)

[3] [Featured Photo](https://unsplash.com/photos/lfyP9zTgUp0) by
[Leyre Labarga](https://unsplash.com/@leyre_labarga?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
on
[Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/s/photos/open-source?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
